`RichTooltip/Popover` component - `RichTooltip` component documentation [04b] (#2040)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/rich-tooltip/partials/code/how-to-use.md

> The Rich Tooltip component associates a "toggle" element with a "tooltip" element that wraps some generic content (in that sense, both elements act as "containers"). "Soft" (hover/focus) or "click" event listeners can be assigned to the toggle, and when triggered they toggle the visibility of the tooltip, which appears as "popover" on top of the page content. When the tooltip is visible, it can be closed in various ways: toggling via the "soft" or "click" events, clicking outside of the popover, or via the `esc` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rich Tooltip component associates a toggle element with a tooltip element that contains generic content. "Soft" (hover/focus) or click event listeners can be assigned to the toggle, which toggle the tooltip's visibility, which appears as a popover on top of the page content. The tooltip can be closed by re-triggering the toggle events, clicking outside the popover, or pressing the `esc` key.
```

While the Rich Tooltip may seem to be a fairly simple component, there is a lot of complexity beneath the surface:

> - the component uses the [native web Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) to display the tooltip content as "popover" on top of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the component uses the [native web Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) to display the tooltip content as a popover on top of the page
```

- A third-party library called [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/) provides the anchoring of the "popover" to the "toggle" element and the automatic positioning/collision detection functionality.
- These functionalities are abstracted into two HDS utilities (the `hds-anchored-position` modifier and the [PopoverPrimitive component](/utilities/popover-primitive)), which the Rich Tooltip component is built on top of.

> Since tooltips are notoriously hard to implement in an accessible way, we limited the ways in which the Rich Tooltip can be used. At the same time, we have provided an escape hatch if some edge cases need to be supported (but in this case, consumers will need to make sure the component is used in a [conformant accessible way](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since tooltips are notoriously hard to implement in an accessible way, we limited the ways in which the Rich Tooltip can be used. At the same time, we have provided an escape hatch if some edge cases need to be supported (but in this case, consumers will need to make sure the component is used in a [conformant and accessible way](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility)).
```

> The component provides a lot of options to customize its behavior. Below we have tried to describe the most common examples, but if you find a use case that is not supported by the existing Rich Tooltip implementation, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component provides many options to customize its behavior. Below we have tried to describe the most common examples, but if you find a use case that is not supported by the existing Rich Tooltip implementation, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).
```

## How to use this component

When using this component, there are a few things to consider:

- what toggle to use; the [standard toggle](#standard-toggle) or a [generic toggle](#generic-toggle)

> - if the toggle is a [standalone element](#as-a-standalone-element) or if instead lives [inline with other text](#inline-with-other-text)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- if the toggle is a [standalone element](#as-a-standalone-element) or instead lives [inline with other text](#inline-with-other-text)
```

- how the end-user should [interact](#interactivity) with the toggle to show/hide the tooltip

> Depending of these factors, there are different ways to implement the code, described in these alternatives below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on these factors, there are different ways to implement the code, as described in the alternatives below.
```

### Standard toggle

> The standard `Toggle` element **ensures perceivability and accessibility out of the box**. It consist of a text (with a specific underline decoration applied to it) and an optional icon. The icon can be leading or trailing, and its size is always proportional to the font size of the text (`1em`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard `Toggle` element **ensures perceivability and accessibility out of the box**. It consist of a piece of text (with an underline decoration applied to it) and an optional icon. The icon can be leading or trailing, and its size is always proportional to the font size of the text (`1em`).
```

The text and the icon are rendered inside an HTML `<button>` element (the one that technically acts as a toggling control for the popover). For details about how the user can interact with this button see the [Interactivity](#interactivity) sub-section.

> The `Bubble` element instead is a pure container that yields the children inside the "popover" tooltip bubble. Consumers can pass whatever content they need to it, but they are also responsible of styling and structuring it according to their needs/context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Bubble` element is a pure container that yields the children inside the "popover" tooltip bubble. Consumers can pass whatever content they need to it, but they are responsible for styling and structuring it according to their needs/context.
```

!!! Info

> Notice: we apply a CSS reset (`all: initial`) to the container to avoid styles applied to the parent elements leaking into the tooltip content. If you find any issue with this reset please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: we apply a CSS reset (`all: initial`) to the container to avoid styles applied to the parent elements leaking into the tooltip content. If you find any issue with this reset, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).
```

!!!

#### As a standalone element

> By default the `Toggle` element is rendered as a block. This means it can easily be used as a standalone UI element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the `Toggle` element is rendered as a block. This means it can easily be used as a standalone UI element.
```

As mentioned above, the invocation requires a "toggle" and a "bubble" element to be passed as yielded sub-components. The "toggle" accepts a `@text` argument and an optional `@icon` argument. The "bubble" element instead yields its content inside the popover tooltip:

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.Toggle @text="More info" @icon="info" />
  <RT.Bubble>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

As one can see, by default the text of the toggle doesn't get a typographic style (it inherits it from the parent).

##### Size

> To apply a predefined typographic style it's necessary to pass a `@size` argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a predefined typographic style, it's necessary to pass a `@size` argument:
```

```handlebars
<div class="doc-rich-tooltip-standalone-block-flex-layout">
  <Hds::Button @text="Your action" {{on "click" this.onClickButton}} />
  <Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
    <RT.Toggle @size="medium" @text="More info" @icon="info" />
    <RT.Bubble>
      <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
    </RT.Bubble>
  </Hds::RichTooltip>
</div>
```

#### Inline with other text

If the toggle needs to be inline with other text, use the `@isInline` argument:

```handlebars
Lorem
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.Toggle @isInline={{true}} @text="ipsum dolor" />
  <RT.Bubble>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.
```

In this case, it is better not to assign a `@size` to the `Toggle`, so that its typographic style is the same as the text that comes before/after the toggle text.

> To apply a typographic style to the whole paragraph consumers can use a [Text](/components/text) component as a wrapper:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a typographic style to the whole paragraph, consumers can use a [Text](/components/text) component as a wrapper:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="300">
  Lorem
  <Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
    <RT.Toggle @isInline={{true}} @text="ipsum dolor" />
    <RT.Bubble>
      <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
    </RT.Bubble>
  </Hds::RichTooltip>
  sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.
</Hds::Text::Body>
```

Similarly, a typographic class (or a custom CSS class) can be applied to a parent container.

#### Whitespace issues

> There may be cases in which the tooltip text is preceded/followed by non-whitespace characters. In this case extra whitespace could appear between these characters and the toggle text. Unfortunately he only solution we have found is to remove every whitespace before/after the `<Hds::RichTooltip>` tag, and before/after the `<RT.Toggle>` and `<RT.Bubble>` tags:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be cases in which the tooltip text is preceded/followed by non-whitespace characters. In this case, extra whitespace could appear between these characters and the toggle text. Unfortunately the only solution we have found is to remove all whitespace before/after the `<Hds::RichTooltip>` tag, and before/after the `<RT.Toggle>` and `<RT.Bubble>` tags:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="300">
  Lorem "<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|><RT.Toggle @isInline={{true}} @text="ipsum dolor" /><RT.Bubble>
      <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
    </RT.Bubble></Hds::RichTooltip>" sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.
</Hds::Text::Body>
```

### Interactivity

> By default the visibility of the tooltip is toggled via "soft" event listeners (hover/focus) applied to the "toggle" container. _Notice: from a purely technical standpoint, the events are `mouseEnter/Leave` and `focusIn/Out`._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the visibility of the tooltip is toggled via "soft" event listeners (hover/focus) applied to the toggle container. _Note: from a purely technical standpoint, the actual events used are `mouseEnter/Leave` and `focusIn/Out`._
```

> To change this behavior and opt for a more explicit user interaction enabling "click" events (in this case the "soft" events are disabled) set the argument `@enableClickEvents` to `true`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change this behavior and opt for a more explicit user interaction using click events (in this case the "soft" events are disabled) set the argument `@enableClickEvents` to `true`:
```

  <RT.Toggle @size="medium" @text="More info" @icon="info" />
  <RT.Bubble>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

Independent of which interaction is used, the tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `esc` key (this "light dismiss" behavior is automatically provided by the [Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#auto_state_and_light_dismiss)).

### Placement

By default the tooltip is shown below the toggle, visually centered. It's possible to change the initial position of the tooltip using the `@placement` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.Toggle @size="medium" @text="Lorem ipsum" @icon="info" />
  <RT.Bubble @placement="top-start">
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information that spans multiple lines</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

### Collision detection

> The RichTooltip component automatically adapts its alignment depending on its position relative to the viewport to avoid "collisions" with the browser window boundaries. This means that when an end-user scrolls the page, or resizes the browser, the position of the tooltip on the page dynamically adapts to these changes (along the two axes, main and secondary).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RichTooltip component automatically adapts its alignment depending on its position relative to the viewport to avoid collisions with the browser window boundaries. This means that when an end-user scrolls the page, or resizes the browser, the position of the tooltip on the page dynamically adapts to these changes (along the two axes, main and secondary).
```

> It's possible to disable this behavior setting the `@enableCollisionDetection` argument to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to disable this behavior by setting the `@enableCollisionDetection` argument to `false`.
```

It's also possible to customize this behaviour using the values:
- `flip` - adapts the position only along its [axis of alignment](https://floating-ui.com/docs/flip#mainaxis)
- `shift` - adapts the position only along its [side axis](https://floating-ui.com/docs/shift#mainaxis)
- `auto` - uses the side where there is [more space available](https://floating-ui.com/docs/autoPlacement) (in relation to the viewport)

The default option is a combination of `flip`+`shift` and is the suggested one, but there may be use cases where the other options work better in a specific context/use case.

!!! Info

More in-depth explanations about the different alignment algorithms and how they work can be found in the Floating UI documentation. See [flip](https://floating-ui.com/docs/flip), [shift](https://floating-ui.com/docs/shift), and [autoPlacement](https://floating-ui.com/docs/autoPlacement)).

!!!

> In the example below we use an `auto` placement: try to scroll and/or resize the page and see how the tooltip changes its position automatically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, we use an `auto` placement: try scrolling and/or resizing the page and see how the tooltip changes its position automatically:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip @enableClickEvents={{true}} as |RT|>
  <RT.Toggle @size="medium" @text="More info" @icon="info" />
  <RT.Bubble @enableCollisionDetection="auto">
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information that spans multiple lines</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

### Fixed width/height

> By default the size of the tooltip automatically adapts to the size of its content (with a max-width of `280px`). It's possible to assign fixed `width` and/or `height` to the tooltip providing the `@width`/`@height` arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the size of the tooltip automatically adapts to the size of its content (with a max-width of `280px`). It's possible to assign a fixed `width` and/or `height` to the tooltip by providing the `@width` or `@height` arguments:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.Toggle @size="medium" @text="More info" @icon="info" />
  <RT.Bubble @width="450px" @height="200px">
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

### Generic toggle

> There may be special use cases in which the standard text/icon-based toggle doesn't work in a specific context or design. For this reason custom content can be `yield` to the `Toggle` element, but this should be considered an option of last resort, because it could result in a non-accessible implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be special use cases in which the standard text or icon-based toggle doesn't work in a specific context or design. For this reason, custom content can be yielded to the `Toggle` element, but this should be considered an option of last resort, because it could result in a non-accessible implementation.
```

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.Toggle>
    <Hds::Tag @text="My text tag" />
  </RT.Toggle>
  <RT.Bubble>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Some descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.Bubble>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

!!! Warning

**Important**

When used in this way, it's up to the consumer to make sure the implementation is compliant with the [accessibility requirements](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility).

!!!

### Advanced options

There might be special use cases in which consumers may need to fine tune the Rich Tooltip behaviour. Below we provide some some examples.

!!! Insight

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
```
```

> If you find yourself in need to customize the component behaviour or functionality, we suggest to [speak with the Design System team](/about/support) before actually implementing the changes (we may already have it covered).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your use case requires customizing the component behavior or functionality, we suggest [speaking with the Design System team](/about/support) first before actually implementing the changes (as we may already have your case covered).
```

> The Rich Tooltip component associates a "toggle" element with a "tooltip" element that wraps some generic content (in that sense, both elements act as "containers"). "Soft" (hover/focus) or "click" event listeners can be assigned to the toggle, and when triggered they toggle the visibility of the tooltip, which appears as "popover" on top of the page content. When the tooltip is visible, it can be closed in various ways: toggling via the "soft" or "click" events, clicking outside of the popover, or via the `esc` key.

Reviewer: The Rich Tooltip component associates a toggle element with a tooltip element that contains generic content. "Soft" (hover/focus) or click event listeners can be assigned to the toggle, which toggle the tooltip's visibility, which appears as "popover" on top of the page content. The tooltip can be closed by re-triggering the toggle events, clicking outside the popover, or pressing the `esc` key.

> Now, while at first glance the Rich Tooltip component may seem a simple component, beneath the surface it conceals a lot of complexity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the Rich Tooltip may seem to be a fairly simple component, there is a lot of complexity beneath the surface:
```

> - the component uses the [native web Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) to display the tooltip content as "popover" on top of the page content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- it uses the [native web Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) to display the tooltip content as a "popover" on top of the page content
```

> - it also uses a third-party library called [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/) to provide the anchoring of the "popover" to the "toggle" element, and the automatic positioning/collision detection functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a third-party library called [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/) provides the anchoring of the "popover" to the "toggle" element and the automatic positioning/collision detection functionality
```

> - these functionalities are in turn abstracted in two underlying HDS utilities (the `hds-anchored-position` modifier and the [PopoverPrimitive component](/utilities/popover-primitive)), on top of which the Rich Tooltip component is built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These functionalities are abstracted into two HDS utilities (the `hds-anchored-position` modifier and the [PopoverPrimitive component](/utilities/popover-primitive)), which the Rich Tooltip component is built on top of.
```

> The component provides a lot of options to customize its behavior. Below we have tried to describe the most common examples, but if you find a use case that is not supported by the existing Rich Tooltip implementation, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component provides several options to customize its behavior. Below, we have tried to include the most common examples, but if you find a use case that is not supported by the existing Rich Tooltip implementation, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).
```

> The component also provides a lot of options to customize its behaviour. Below we have tried to describe the most common ones, but if you find a use case that is not supported by the existing Rich Tooltip implementation, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).

Author: 😀 I'm not sure if we've discussed whether to use the American spelling or the British spelling of "behavior"? Not opinionated on it, but we should ensure that we're doing to the same thing in other places.

```suggestion
The component provides a lot of options to customize its behavior. Below we have tried to describe the most common examples, but if you find a use case that is not supported by the existing Rich Tooltip implementation, please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).
```

> And finally, since tooltips are notoriously hard to implement in an accessible way, we have tried to limit the ways in wich the Rich Tooltip can be used, while at the same time provide an escape hatch if some edge cases need to be supported (in that case, consumers will need to make sure the component is used in a [conformant accessible way](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility)).

Author: I think you can break this up into a separate sentence rather than using parenthesis.

```suggestion
And finally, since tooltips are notoriously hard to implement in an accessible way, we have tried to limit the ways in which the Rich Tooltip can be used, while at the same time provide an escape hatch if some edge cases need to be supported. If this is the case, consumers will need to make sure the component is used in a [conformant accessible way](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility).
```

> And finally, since tooltips are notoriously hard to implement in an accessible way, we have tried to limit the ways in which the Rich Tooltip can be used, while at the same time provide an escape hatch if some edge cases need to be supported. If this is the case, consumers will need to make sure the component is used in a [conformant accessible way](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As tooltips can be difficult to implement in an accessible way, we have intentionally limited some of the ways in which the Rich Tooltip can be used, while at the same time providing an alternative if some edge cases need to be supported. If this is the case, consumers will need to make sure the component is used in a [conformant accessible way](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility).
```

Reviewer: This part still needs work for better clarity: "If this is the case"

## How to use this component

> When using this component, there are a few things you have to consider:

Author: ```suggestion
When using this component, there are a few things to consider:
```

> - what toggle to use, the standard [InfoText toggle](#with-infotext-toggle) or a [generic toggle](#with-a-generic-toggle), and in that case if the generic toggle contains interactive elements or not

Author: ```suggestion
- what toggle to use; the standard [InfoText toggle](#with-infotext-toggle) or a [generic toggle](#with-a-generic-toggle), and in that case if the generic toggle contains interactive elements or not
```

- if the toggle is a [standalone element](#as-a-standalone-element) or if instead lives [inline with other text](#inline-with-other-text)
- how the end-user should [interact](#interactivity) with the toggle to show/hide the tooltip

> Depending of these factors, there are different ways to implement the code. We describe these alternatives below.

Author: I'm not sure about this sentence, but this seems a bit more concise.

```suggestion
Depending of these factors, there are different ways to implement the code, described in these alternatives below.
```

### With `InfoText` toggle

#### As a standalone element

> The toggle element (and the parent "wrapping" container) are rendered by default as block elements. This means it can easily be used as standalone element.

Author: ```suggestion
The toggle element (and the parent "wrapping" container) are rendered by default as block elements. This means it can easily be used as a standalone element.
```

> The invocation requires a "toggle" element and a "content" to be passed as yielded sub-components:

Author: ```suggestion
The invocation requires a "toggle" element and "content" to be passed as yielded sub-components:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleInfoText @icon="info">More info</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

> Here we're using the `InfoText` toggle element, which ensures perceivability and accessibility out of the box. It consist of a text (with a specific underline decoration applied to it) and an optional icon (can be leading or trailing).

Author: ```suggestion
Here we're using the `InfoText` toggle element, which ensures perceivability and accessibility out of the box. It consist of text (with a specific underline decoration applied to it) and an optional icon (can be leading or trailing).
```

> The text and the icon are rendered inside an HTML `<button>` element (the one that technically acts as a toggling control for the popover). For details how the user can interact with this button see the [Interactivity](#interactivity) sub-section.

Author: ```suggestion
The text and the icon are rendered inside an HTML `<button>` element (the one that technically acts as a toggling control for the popover). For details about how the user can interact with this button see the [Interactivity](#interactivity) sub-section.
```

!!! Info

If this doesn't work for your needs/context, you can use a [generic toggle](#with-a-generic-toggle), but in this case it's up to you to make sure the implementation is compliant with the [accessibility requirements](/components/rich-tooltip?tab=accessibility).

!!!

The `PopoverContent` element instead is a pure container that yields the children inside the "popover" tooltip bubble. You can pass whatever content you need to it, but you are also responsible of styling and structuring it according to your needs/context.

!!! Info

> Notice: we apply a CSS reset (`all: initial`) to the container, to avoid that styles applied to the parent elements leak into the tooltip content. If you find any issue with this reset please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).

Author: ```suggestion
Notice: we apply a CSS reset (`all: initial`) to the container to avoid styles applied to the parent elements leaking into the tooltip content. If you find any issue with this reset please [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).
```

!!!

##### Size

As you can see from the code example above, the content of the toggle doesn't get formatted by default (so that it can be used [inline with other text](#inline-with-other-text) and it inherits the typographic style from its parent element).

To apply a predefined typographic styles you have to pass a `@size` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleInfoText @size="large" @icon="info" @iconPosition="trailing">More info</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

> In all the cases the icon size is proportional to the font size (`1em`).

Author: ```suggestion
In all cases the icon size is proportional to the font size (`1em`).
```

##### Visual organization

If you need to align the toggle with other UI elements, use a parent element that wraps the content and provides the desired layout (e.g., using flexbox):

```handlebars
<div class="doc-rich-tooltip-standalone-block-flex-layout">
  <Hds::Button @text="Your action" {{on "click" this.onClickButton}} />
  <Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
    <RT.ToggleInfoText @size="medium" @icon="info">More info</RT.ToggleInfoText>
    <RT.PopoverContent>
      <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
    </RT.PopoverContent>
  </Hds::RichTooltip>
</div>
```

#### Inline with other text

If the tooltip toggle needs to be inline with other text, use the `@isInline` argument:

```handlebars
Lorem
<Hds::RichTooltip @isInline={{true}} as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleInfoText>ipsum dolor</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.
```

> In this case, is better not to assign a `@size` to the `InfoText` toggle, so that its typographic style is the same as the text that comes before/after the toggle text.

Author: ```suggestion
In this case, it is better not to assign a `@size` to the `InfoText` toggle, so that its typographic style is the same as the text that comes before/after the toggle text.
```

To apply a typographic style to the whole paragraph you can use a [Text](/components/text) component as a wrapper:

```handlebars
<Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="300">
  Lorem
  <Hds::RichTooltip @isInline={{true}} as |RT|>
    <RT.ToggleInfoText>ipsum dolor</RT.ToggleInfoText>
    <RT.PopoverContent>
      <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
    </RT.PopoverContent>
  </Hds::RichTooltip>
  sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit.
</Hds::Text::Body>
```

Similarly, you can apply a typographic class, or a custom CSS class, to a parent container.

Which one of these approaches to use will depend on the context where the code is implemented, so we leave it to the consumers to decide which approach works better for them.

#### Interactivity

By default the visibility of the tooltip is toggled via "soft" event listeners (hover/focus) applied to the "toggle" container. _Notice: from a purely technical standpoint, the events are `mouseEnter/Leave` and `focusIn/Out`._

> You can change this behavior and opt for a more explicit user interaction enabling "click" events (in this case the "soft" events are disabled) setting the argument `@enableClickEvents` to `true`:

Author: Ah, 🇺🇸 spelling here!

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip @enableClickEvents={{true}} as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleInfoText @size="medium" @icon="info">More info</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="200">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

> Independent of which interaction is used, the tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `esc` key (this "light dismiss" behaviour is automatically provided by the [Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#auto_state_and_light_dismiss)).

Author: 🇺🇸😀

```suggestion
Independent of which interaction is used, the tooltip can be dismissed by clicking outside of the component or with the `esc` key (this "light dismiss" behavior is automatically provided by the [Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#auto_state_and_light_dismiss)).
```

#### Placement

By default the tooltip is shown below the toggle, visually centered. It's possible to change the initial position of the tooltip using the `@popoverPlacement` argument:

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip @popoverPlacement="top-start" as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleInfoText @size="large" @icon="info">Lorem ipsum</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300">Lorem ipsum</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Sit amet consectetur ut ultrices id venenatis in felis auctor ante.</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

#### Collision detection

> The RichTooltip component automatically adapts its alignment depending on its position in relation to the viewport, to avoid "collisions" with the browser window boundaries. This means that when an end-user scrolls the page, or resizes the browser, the position of the tooltip on the page dynamically adapts to these changes (along the two axes, main and secondary).

Author: [suggestion]
```suggestion
The RichTooltip component automatically adapts its alignment depending on its position relative to the viewport to avoid "collisions" with the browser window boundaries. This means that when an end-user scrolls the page, or resizes the browser, the position of the tooltip on the page dynamically adapts to these changes (along the two axes, main and secondary).
```

> It's possible to disable this behaviour setting the `@enableCollisionDetection` argument to `false`.

Author: 🇺🇸
```suggestion
It's possible to disable this behavior setting the `@enableCollisionDetection` argument to `false`.
```

> It's also possible to customize this behaviour using the values:

Author: Here's another area where adding something about X and Y axes might be more understandable. Without context a consumer might not understand what the "main" axis is.

Reviewer 2: should I link the word `main axis` to the Floating UI documentation? so if they want to understand what does it mean, they can get a more detailed/precise explanation?

Author: Actually, I think given your explanation in the comment, there's plenty of opportunities where Floating-UI is linked to, so I think this can be disregarded now.

  <RT.ToggleInfoText @size="large" @icon="info" @iconPosition="trailing">Lorem ipsum</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300">Lorem ipsum</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Sit amet consectetur ut ultrices id venenatis in felis auctor ante.</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

#### Fixed width/height

By default the size of the tooltip automatically adapts to the size of its content (with a max-width of `280px`). It's possible to assign fixed `width` and/or `height` to the tooltip using the `@popoverWidth`/`@popoverHeight` arguments:

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip @popoverWidth="450px" @popoverHeight="200px" as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleInfoText @size="large" @icon="info" @iconPosition="trailing">Lorem ipsum</RT.ToggleInfoText>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300">Lorem ipsum</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Sit amet consectetur ut ultrices id venenatis in felis auctor ante.</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

### With a generic toggle

> There may be use cases in which the `InfoText` toggle doesn't work in a specific context or design. These cases should be rare, but if it's necessary it's possible to use an alternative content as "toggle" with the `ToggleGeneric` yielded component:

Author: ```suggestion
There may be use cases in which the `InfoText` toggle doesn't work in a specific context or design. These cases should be rare, but if necessary it's possible to use an alternative content as a "toggle" with the `ToggleGeneric` yielded component:
```

<Hds::RichTooltip as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleGeneric>
    <Hds::Tag @text="My text tag" />
  </RT.ToggleGeneric>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

#### Interactive vs non-interactive content

If the content of the generic toggle is interactive, or contains interactive elements, you will need to set the `@toggleContainsInteractive` argument to `true` to avoid generating nested interactive elements (not accessible):

```handlebars
<Hds::RichTooltip @toggleContainsInteractive={{true}} as |RT|>
  <RT.ToggleGeneric>
    <Hds::Tag @text="My text tag" @onDismiss={{this.yourOnDismissFunction}} />
  </RT.ToggleGeneric>
  <RT.PopoverContent>
    <Hds::Text::Display @tag="h4" @size="300">Some title</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">Descriptive information</Hds::Text::Body>
  </RT.PopoverContent>
</Hds::RichTooltip>
```

In this case, it's not possible to enable the "click" events for the toggle, only the "soft" events (hover/focus) are allowed.

#### Other options

> Apart from the interactivity, which needs different considerations, using the generic toggle for the Rich Tooltip still allows to use the same options for placement, collision detection, inlining, and width/height described above.

Author: ```suggestion
Apart from the interactivity, which requires different considerations, using the generic toggle for the Rich Tooltip still supports the same options for placement, collision detection, inlining, and width/height described above.
```

### Advanced options

> There may be some special use cases in which you may need some of the more advanced options of the Rich Tooltip. Below you can find some examples. If you find yourself in need of custom behaviours for the Rich Tooltip [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).

Author: Avoiding repetitive use of "may be".

```suggestion
There might be special use cases in which you may need some of the more advanced options of the Rich Tooltip. Below you can find some examples. If you find yourself in need of custom behaviors for the Rich Tooltip [speak with the Design System team](/about/support).
```
